torchmodelopt/edgeai_torchmodelopt/xmodelopt/surgery/v2/README.md, before:

## Easy to use model surgery utilities using torch.fx

This can be used to replace modules in a model that are derived from torch.nn.Modules. Most of the common classes used a model such as torch.nn.Conv2d, torch.nn.BatchNorm2d, torch.nn.ReLU are derived from torch.nn.Modules, so they can be easily replaced. If a model has used torch.relu operator directory or a x.relu (x being a tensor), those can also be replaced by this surgery utility. 

## APIs

### convert_to_lite_fx
This is the main model surgery function.

#### Usage: 
```
## insert this line into your model training script
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model)
```

#### Example:
```
model = torchvision.models.mobilenet_v3_large()
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model)
```

### get_replacement_dict_default
This can be used to get the default replacement dict. This replacement dict can then be modified and passed to the convert api. 

#### Usage:
```
replacement_dict = copy.deepcopy(edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.get_replacement_dict_default())
replacement_dict.update({torch.nn.GELU: torch.nn.ReLU})
```

Now apply the conversion using the updated replacement_dict
```
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model, replacement_dict=replacement_dict)
```

The value of the replacement entry can also be a function name:
```
replacement_dict = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.get_replacement_dict_default()
replacement_dict.update({'layerNorm':custom_surgery_functions.replace_layer_norm})
```

In this case replace_layer_norm function is responsible for implementing the logic to replace the desired layer. The utility function [replacer.straight_chain_searcher](replacer.straight_chain_searcher) can be used to find the matches that have to be replaced - see examples in [custom_surgery_functions.py](custom_surgery_functions.py).


## Note:
See more [detailed documentation](docs/details.md) of the model surgery implementation.

Commit message:

fix quantization and add ptc based quantization ipython notebook

torchmodelopt/edgeai_torchmodelopt/xmodelopt/surgery/v2/README.md, after:

## Easy to use model surgery utilities using torch.fx

This can be used to replace modules in a model that are derived from torch.nn.Modules. Most of the common classes used a model such as torch.nn.Conv2d, torch.nn.BatchNorm2d, torch.nn.ReLU are derived from torch.nn.Modules, so they can be easily replaced. If a model has used torch.relu operator directory or a x.relu (x being a tensor), those can also be replaced by this surgery utility. 

Example ipython notebook to use the API can be found [over here](../../../../example_notebooks/surgery.ipynb).

## APIs

### convert_to_lite_fx
This is the main model surgery function.

#### Usage: 
```
## insert this line into your model training script
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model)
```

#### Example:
```
model = torchvision.models.mobilenet_v3_large()
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model)
```

### get_replacement_dict_default
This can be used to get the default replacement dict. This replacement dict can then be modified and passed to the convert api. 

#### Usage:
```
replacement_dict = copy.deepcopy(edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.get_replacement_dict_default())
replacement_dict.update({torch.nn.GELU: torch.nn.ReLU})
```

Now apply the conversion using the updated replacement_dict
```
model = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.convert_to_lite_fx(model, replacement_dict=replacement_dict)
```

The value of the replacement entry can also be a function name:
```
replacement_dict = edgeai_torchmodelopt.xmodelopt.surgery.v2.get_replacement_dict_default()
replacement_dict.update({'layerNorm':custom_surgery_functions.replace_layer_norm})
```

In this case replace_layer_norm function is responsible for implementing the logic to replace the desired layer. The utility function [replacer.straight_chain_searcher](replacer.straight_chain_searcher) can be used to find the matches that have to be replaced - see examples in [custom_surgery_functions.py](custom_surgery_functions.py).


## Note:
See more [detailed documentation](docs/details.md) of the model surgery implementation.
